doc/content/msr/msfr/griffin_pgh_results.md, before:

# MSFR Turbulence Modeling Parameter Tuning Using Nek5000 Data

As a coarse mesh CFD code, Pronghorn requires high fidelity data to be able to
model small scale phenomena. Turbulence modeling in Pronghorn currently supports
a zero-equation model, a capped mixing length model, which is a modification of
the original Prandtl's mixing length model [!citep](escudier1966). In this
formulation, the mixing length grows linearly up to a distance dependent on
a parameter $\delta$, which is representative of the boundary layer thickness.
Using Nek5000 data, this parameter is tuned for Reynolds numbers 40K and 1M.
The latter is of particular interest to simulate the MSFR operational regime.

The mesh used for the tuning is the same as the one used in
[Nek5000 model](msfr/nek5000_cfd_model.md).

## Results for Reynolds number 40,000

The boundary conditions for this problem are velocity inlet profile, pressure
outlet, symmetry at the center of the geometry along the X axis and no slip
condition at the walls. Time derivatives are added to the momentum equation for
relaxation purposes.

Velocity magnitude and pressure fields obtained in Nek5000 and Pronghorn are
shown next.

!media media/msr/msfr/Nek_Re40000_vfield.png
    style=width:30%
    caption=Nek5000 Velocity magnitude field for Re 40K.

!media media/msr/msfr/PH_Re40000_vfield.png
    style=width:30%
    caption=Pronghorn Velocity magnitude field for Re 40K.

!media media/msr/msfr/Nek_Re40000_pfield.png
    style=width:30%
    caption=Nek5000 Pressure field for Re 40K.

!media media/msr/msfr/PH_Re40000_pfield.png
    style=width:30%
    caption=Pronghorn Pressure field for Re 40K.

The parameter $\delta$ for this simulation is set to 0.12 m. This is the result
of a parametric study focused on minimizing the error of the velocity field,
specifically at the minimum core radius. The velocity magnitude at the minimum
core radius is plotted in the following figure.

!media media/msr/msfr/Velocity_LinePlot_Re40K.png
    style=width:60%
    caption=Velocity magnitude at the minimum core radius.

The behavior of the velocity fields are similar between both codes. The
momentum diffusion at the core of the reactor is relatively higher in Pronghorn.
This comes as a result of the limitation in the zero-equation turbulence model,
which assumes a constant mixing length in the bulk region.

Pronghorn's total simulation time is 4 minutes using 4 cores.

## Results for Reynolds number 1,000,000

The boundary conditions for this problem are velocity inlet profile, pressure
outlet, symmetry at the center of the geometry along the X axis and standard
velocity wall functions at the walls. Time derivatives are added to the momentum
equation for relaxation purposes.

An exponentially decaying viscosity ramp is used for convergence purposes.

\begin{equation}
  \mu_{sim} = \mu_{phys} \cdot (exp(-3 \cdot t) + 1)
\end{equation}

Velocity magnitude and pressure fields obtained in Nek5000 and Pronghorn are
shown next.

!media media/msr/msfr/Nek_Re1M_vfield.png
    style=width:30%
    caption=Nek5000 Velocity magnitude field for Re 1M.

!media media/msr/msfr/PH_Re1M_vfield.png
    style=width:30%
    caption=Pronghorn Velocity magnitude field for Re 1M.

!media media/msr/msfr/Nek_Re1M_pfield.png
    style=width:30%
    caption=Nek5000 Pressure field for Re 1M.

!media media/msr/msfr/PH_Re1M_pfield.png
    style=width:30%
    caption=Pronghorn Pressure field for Re 1M.

The parameter $\delta$ for this simulation is set to 0.1 m. This is the result
of a parametric study focused on minimizing the error of the velocity field,
specifically at the minimum core radius. The velocity magnitude at the minimum
core radius is plotted in the following figure.

The behavior of the velocity fields are similar between both codes. The
momentum diffusion at the center of the reactor is slightly higher in Pronghorn.

!media media/msr/msfr/Velocity_LinePlot_Re1M.png
    style=width:60%
    caption=Velocity magnitude at the minimum core radius.

Pronghorn's total simulation time is 15 minutes using 4 cores.

## General Remarks

Even though Pronghorn offers a lower computation time, it is important to note
that in a coarse mesh CFD code like Pronghorn, the tuning done in this section is
dependent on the mesh due to the numerical diffusion. The importance of this
numerical diffusion could be reduced in the future with the implementation of
second order upwind discretization (currently using linear upwind) and the
use of non-orthogonal correctors for meshes with a degree of skewness.


# MSFR Griffin-Pronghorn Results

## Initialization

The Reynolds number in the operational regime of the MSFR is around $1x10^6$,
therefore, a high degree of relaxation is needed when the initial condition is
a zero velocity field. The current way of relaxing the solution starting from a
zero velocity field is to ramp down the viscosity with an exponentially decaying
material property function and the addition of time derivatives. To avoid this
step during the fully coupled simulation, `run_ns.i` restarts from an exodus
file (`run_ns_initial_out.e`) that contains the converged velocity fields. The
input file which generates this initial operation regime condition is called
`run_ns_initial.i`. The $\delta$ value is obtained from the comparison against
Nek5000.

The steady state velocity magnitude fields for the MSFR Griffin-Pronghorn model
is depicted below.

!media media/msr/msfr/PH_Griffin_SteadyState_NS.png
       style=width:30%

## Full Model Steady State

The Griffin-Pronghorn model predicts the following steady-state velocity and
temperature fields in the MSFR:

!media media/msr/msfr/PH_Griffin_v_SS.png
       style=width:30%

!media media/msr/msfr/PH_Griffin_T_SS.png
       style=width:30%

The maximum temperature of the simulation is around 1280 K. Note that despite  
some momentum diffusion occurring in the reactor core, the flow at the center is
low where the power density has a maximum. This leads to high temperatures in
the center region, which in turn drives the flow vertically through buoyancy.

We can also observe a low degree of flow separation along the shield wall. The
salt here will be in direct contact with the core structure and may challenge
the temperature limitations of the structural material.

 The main difference between the velocity fields of the previous section and
 this section is the augmented flow in the core of the reactor. This is
 a results of the buoyant force coupling.

The Griffin-Pronghorn model also provides the steady-state distributions of the
delayed neutron precursors. The distributions of 3 (of the 6) groups are shown
below. For this plot, the concentrations have been normalized so that the
maximum value for each group is unity.

!media media/msr/msfr/PH_Griffin_DNP_SS.png
       style=width:100%

Group 6 has the shortest half-life (240 ms), and its behavior is dominated by
radioactive decay rather than advection. Consequently, its distribution
closely matches the fission distribution, with a distinct peak in the middle of
the core. Groups 3 and 1 have longer half-lives (6 and 52 s, respectively), so
they are more readily advected and diffused by the fluid. In fact, the
distribution of the slowest decaying group, group 1, is nearly uniform
throughout the salt.

Commit message:

Add LFS instructions to all models leveraging LFS for storage of XS or meshes, refs #7 #58

doc/content/msr/msfr/griffin_pgh_results.md, after:

# MSFR Turbulence Modeling Parameter Tuning Using Nek5000 Data

As a coarse mesh CFD code, Pronghorn requires high fidelity data to be able to
model small scale phenomena. Turbulence modeling in Pronghorn currently supports
a zero-equation model, a capped mixing length model, which is a modification of
the original Prandtl's mixing length model [!citep](escudier1966). In this
formulation, the mixing length grows linearly up to a distance dependent on
a parameter $\delta$, which is representative of the boundary layer thickness.
Using Nek5000 data, this parameter is tuned for Reynolds numbers 40K and 1M.
The latter is of particular interest to simulate the MSFR operational regime.

The mesh used for the tuning is the same as the one used in
[Nek5000 model](msfr/nek5000_cfd_model.md).

## Results for Reynolds number 40,000

The boundary conditions for this problem are velocity inlet profile, pressure
outlet, symmetry at the center of the geometry along the X axis and no slip
condition at the walls. Time derivatives are added to the momentum equation for
relaxation purposes.

Velocity magnitude and pressure fields obtained in Nek5000 and Pronghorn are
shown next.

!media media/msr/msfr/Nek_Re40000_vfield.png
    style=width:30%
    caption=Nek5000 Velocity magnitude field for Re 40K.

!media media/msr/msfr/PH_Re40000_vfield.png
    style=width:30%
    caption=Pronghorn Velocity magnitude field for Re 40K.

!media media/msr/msfr/Nek_Re40000_pfield.png
    style=width:30%
    caption=Nek5000 Pressure field for Re 40K.

!media media/msr/msfr/PH_Re40000_pfield.png
    style=width:30%
    caption=Pronghorn Pressure field for Re 40K.

The parameter $\delta$ for this simulation is set to 0.12 m. This is the result
of a parametric study focused on minimizing the error of the velocity field,
specifically at the minimum core radius. The velocity magnitude at the minimum
core radius is plotted in the following figure.

!media media/msr/msfr/Velocity_LinePlot_Re40K.png
    style=width:60%
    caption=Velocity magnitude at the minimum core radius.

The behavior of the velocity fields are similar between both codes. The
momentum diffusion at the core of the reactor is relatively higher in Pronghorn.
This comes as a result of the limitation in the zero-equation turbulence model,
which assumes a constant mixing length in the bulk region.

Pronghorn's total simulation time is 4 minutes using 4 cores.

## Results for Reynolds number 1,000,000

The boundary conditions for this problem are velocity inlet profile, pressure
outlet, symmetry at the center of the geometry along the X axis and standard
velocity wall functions at the walls. Time derivatives are added to the momentum
equation for relaxation purposes.

An exponentially decaying viscosity ramp is used for convergence purposes.

\begin{equation}
  \mu_{sim} = \mu_{phys} \cdot (exp(-3 \cdot t) + 1)
\end{equation}

Velocity magnitude and pressure fields obtained in Nek5000 and Pronghorn are
shown next.

!media media/msr/msfr/Nek_Re1M_vfield.png
    style=width:30%
    caption=Nek5000 Velocity magnitude field for Re 1M.

!media media/msr/msfr/PH_Re1M_vfield.png
    style=width:30%
    caption=Pronghorn Velocity magnitude field for Re 1M.

!media media/msr/msfr/Nek_Re1M_pfield.png
    style=width:30%
    caption=Nek5000 Pressure field for Re 1M.

!media media/msr/msfr/PH_Re1M_pfield.png
    style=width:30%
    caption=Pronghorn Pressure field for Re 1M.

The parameter $\delta$ for this simulation is set to 0.1 m. This is the result
of a parametric study focused on minimizing the error of the velocity field,
specifically at the minimum core radius. The velocity magnitude at the minimum
core radius is plotted in the following figure.

The behavior of the velocity fields are similar between both codes. The
momentum diffusion at the center of the reactor is slightly higher in Pronghorn.

!media media/msr/msfr/Velocity_LinePlot_Re1M.png
    style=width:60%
    caption=Velocity magnitude at the minimum core radius.

Pronghorn's total simulation time is 15 minutes using 4 cores.

## General Remarks

Even though Pronghorn offers a lower computation time, it is important to note
that in a coarse mesh CFD code like Pronghorn, the tuning done in this section is
dependent on the mesh due to the numerical diffusion. The importance of this
numerical diffusion could be reduced in the future with the implementation of
second order upwind discretization (currently using linear upwind) and the
use of non-orthogonal correctors for meshes with a degree of skewness.


# MSFR Griffin-Pronghorn Results

!alert note
Sample outputs for this model are hosted on LFS. Please refer to [LFS instructions](resources/how_to_use_vtb.md#lfs)
to download them.

## Initialization

The Reynolds number in the operational regime of the MSFR is around $1x10^6$,
therefore, a high degree of relaxation is needed when the initial condition is
a zero velocity field. The current way of relaxing the solution starting from a
zero velocity field is to ramp down the viscosity with an exponentially decaying
material property function and the addition of time derivatives. To avoid this
step during the fully coupled simulation, `run_ns.i` restarts from an exodus
file (`run_ns_initial_out.e`) that contains the converged velocity fields. The
input file which generates this initial operation regime condition is called
`run_ns_initial.i`. The $\delta$ value is obtained from the comparison against
Nek5000.

The steady state velocity magnitude fields for the MSFR Griffin-Pronghorn model
is depicted below.

!media media/msr/msfr/PH_Griffin_SteadyState_NS.png
       style=width:30%

## Full Model Steady State

The Griffin-Pronghorn model predicts the following steady-state velocity and
temperature fields in the MSFR:

!media media/msr/msfr/PH_Griffin_v_SS.png
       style=width:30%

!media media/msr/msfr/PH_Griffin_T_SS.png
       style=width:30%

The maximum temperature of the simulation is around 1280 K. Note that despite  
some momentum diffusion occurring in the reactor core, the flow at the center is
low where the power density has a maximum. This leads to high temperatures in
the center region, which in turn drives the flow vertically through buoyancy.

We can also observe a low degree of flow separation along the shield wall. The
salt here will be in direct contact with the core structure and may challenge
the temperature limitations of the structural material.

 The main difference between the velocity fields of the previous section and
 this section is the augmented flow in the core of the reactor. This is
 a results of the buoyant force coupling.

The Griffin-Pronghorn model also provides the steady-state distributions of the
delayed neutron precursors. The distributions of 3 (of the 6) groups are shown
below. For this plot, the concentrations have been normalized so that the
maximum value for each group is unity.

!media media/msr/msfr/PH_Griffin_DNP_SS.png
       style=width:100%

Group 6 has the shortest half-life (240 ms), and its behavior is dominated by
radioactive decay rather than advection. Consequently, its distribution
closely matches the fission distribution, with a distinct peak in the middle of
the core. Groups 3 and 1 have longer half-lives (6 and 52 s, respectively), so
they are more readily advected and diffused by the fluid. In fact, the
distribution of the slowest decaying group, group 1, is nearly uniform
throughout the salt.
